# Final Project: Part III
## Men & Mental Health 

[Click Here](https://carnegiemellon.shorthandstories.com/men-and-mental-health/index.html) for Final Product 

### Final Audience 
My initial decision to pursue this topic for the final presentation stemmed from the upcoming Men's Mental Health Awareness Month in June. Over the past few years, I have seen a rise in awareness efforts surrounding not just men's mental health but also mental health more generally. I have seen which awareness efforts work and which do not. For my final project, I realized that attempting to tell the story towards just men would not be effective. First, the public nature of the final project means that more than just men will eventually view it. Second, many efforts already exist that target outreach and education towards men. My final audience was what I term as "friends of men" - family members and friends of all genders. This frames the information not from a man's perspective but from an outsider's perspective, who may or may not be aware of the struggles of men they know.  

### Final Adjustments 
I ended up adjusting many things about the data presented in my final presentation. First, the titles of each graphic were adjusted to match the intended audience. Framing the main point of each graphic from that point of view better communicated my intended audience. For example, rather than saying "Fewer than 2 out of 10 men seek mental health services in their lifetime," my graphic title said "Fewer than 2 out of 10 men **you know** seek mental health services in their lifetime." This subtle difference is important for engaging the audience. Second, I changed my last dataset to reflect mental healthcare usage by gender and race. In part 2, I had a piecemeal dataset about healthcare capacity versus general need in the United States, highlighting the disparity in care availability. However, I heard in my feedback that it would be better to keep the focus on men's usage rather than the general public's. The inclusion of racial specific data also made my project much more salient. 

### Overall Process
The final project was a lot of fun. Trying to find a topic that was large enough to have publicly-accessible data but not so large that great graphics and representations already exist was tough. Furthermore, trying to fit all the important information into a final deliverable that was not overly long was a challenge. Finally, trying to pick the most important aspects to cover in the final presentation while highlighting the call to action was an area I struggled in. I learned that finding and cleaning data to then use for visualizations is difficult - but also a lot of fun. I love data analysis, so being able to use cleaning skills in this project was very enjoyable to me. I found the feedback process to be the **most important step**, partially because I had weaker feedback on this project than others. Going forward, I want to dedicate more time to the feedback process to ensure my final product is as good as can be. 

[Click Here](https://github.com/billsponsor/Data_Visualization_Portfolio/blob/main/Final_Project_cschoebe.md) for Part I. 
[Click Here](https://github.com/billsponsor/Data_Visualization_Portfolio/blob/main/Final_Project_cschoebe_II.md) for Part II. 
